## 🌱 Current Interests

### 1. **[Critical learning theory: on the hidden curriculum](https://github.com/gallardoalba/hidden_curriculum)**
   - **Description**: This project aspires to be a introduction on the Critical Learning Theory and the concept of hidden curriculum, with the aim of pointing out which pedagogical elements are the most appropriate to stimulate critical thinking, the backbone of scientific development. Last but not least, it includes personal reflections from my teaching experiences, both in secondary education and as a lecturer in the Department of Bioinformatics at the Faculty of Freiburg.

### 2. **[Matter and form: reinterpretation of natural philosophy in the Pythagorean school](https://github.com/gallardoalba/natural_philosophy)**
   - **Description**: This project aims to provide a detailed description of the origin of natural philosophy, also known as science, understood as the constantly evolving process of knowledge generation based on observation, evidence and criticism. Specifically, this training focuses on the birth of science in the city of Miletus in the 6th century BC, and its subsequent evolution under the influence of the Pythagorean philosophers in the 5th century BC, during which the notion of science re-emerged as the mathematical understanding of nature. The emergence of natural philosophy holds a prominent place in the history of Western thought, as it marks the beginning of philosophy itself. 

### 3. **[Anti-Thesis](https://github.com/gallardoalba/anti-thesis)**
   - **Description**: This project intends to provide a comprehensible introduction to the application of dialectical logic on natural sciences. Dialectical logic rooted in the philosophical traditions of Hegel and Marx, emphasizes the dynamic and interconnected nature of reality, where contradictions and oppositions drive change and development. This approach contrasts with classical logic, which often seeks to resolve contradictions in a binary manner. In the context of complex biological problems, dialectical logic offers a valuable framework for understanding the intricate relationships and interactions within biological systems.
